In the last few lessons we covered a lot of concepts about redux because redux is a very conceptual
paradigm of how to build your application and of course we are definitely in this lesson going to set
up our code to have redux inside of it.
But before I do there's one more thing I want to cover now.
The reason I want to cover this is because we're going to write a lot of code just to set up a redux
and it's a lot of new concepts and code that you might not understand.
But if you at least understand from a high level what we're doing you can see why we have to configure
the code the way that we do so looking back at this diagram of how our actions flow through redux in
order to trigger changes inside of our Dom we look at this flow of events.
We have some action that goes into our producer right.
Our route reducer which then propagates changes into it which update our store and then our store finally
results in Dom changes in the right components along the way of these actions occurring before it ever
even hits the root reducer.
It can hit something in the middle called a middleware and all Middleware is is a piece of code that
gets the action before the root reducer.
What that middleware does with the actual action is entirely up to the middleware but that's all it
is.
They're just something that receive these action objects before they reach the root reducer.
Now we're going to explore a lot of middle west throughout this course.
But the most important one that we're actually going to use and explore in order for us to better understand
redux is the redux logger a middleware and all that middleware does is it logs out actions that get
fired and then what the state of these reduces arc before and after the action.
So pretty much just a visual representation of what it is that actions do which is very useful for us
to understand redux.
So let's actually write this out in the code.
So if we go back to our terminal we need to actually install both redux as well as the redux bindings
for react because redux can be used in multiple frameworks not just react.
And we also need that redux logger middleware.
So what we're going to do is we're gonna say yarn ad redux space redux logger and react redux.
So those are the three lives that we need so as those are being added to our application let's go back
to our application and go into our index J.S. file our index J S file is where we are actually going
to put the new component that we get from react redux that will give our application access to not only
the store but also those reduces that we're going to also right now that thing that we get is going
to be called the provider and the provider is a component that we get from reactive redux this provider
is a component that we want to wrap around the entire application because we want everything inside
to have access to this store object that we get from redux.
So we'll actually write the store object but first let's just understand this provider.
This provider is a component that is the parent of everything inside of our application.
And as the parent it allows us to get access to all of the things related to the store that we're going
to put all of the actual code we want to store on our reading stage.
So that's all this provider is and it's a component and it's got to be the parent of everything.
So now that we have our provider we actually need to write the store itself.
Now how we're going to do that is we are going to make a new folder inside of our source called redux
and inside of here it will be all the code related to r redux that we're going to write.
So what we want to write first is actually this root reducer and what the root reducer is is the actual
base reducer object that represents all of the state of our application so this root reducer will end
up being the actual code that combines all of our other states together.
Now why do we want to do that.
Well if we wrote all of the code related to all the states in our application in one file you can imagine
that it becomes really unwieldy.
So what we want to do is break the code up into its individual sections and I'll show you how we'll
do that but just understand that all of the reducer that we're going to write is going to go into this
root reducer Now the other thing that we're going to write is actually going to be the user reducer
because the user reducer is going to be that reducer that will store the state of our current user.
Now right now we do store it.
Our current user inside of our App State so we just want to move that into a reducer that is pretty
much going to be the same type of object.
So what we're going to do is we are going to make a new folder called the user and any redux code related
to this user is going to go into this folder and the first thing we're going to make is that user reducer
and we're just gonna say it's user dot reducer dodgy OSX and this lets us know that this file is a reducer
now a reducer is actually just a function that gets two properties it gets a state object which represents
the last state or an initial state right.
Which is just an object that represents what it is that we're trying to store.
And then it receives an action that action is just an object that has a type which is a string value.
So it's just the name that tells us what specific action this is.
And when I say specific it literally means like we are going to write a bunch of actions we're going
to name them whatever it is that we want.
So we want to make sure that our reducer is are aware of what specific type of action that's coming
through is and it's gonna be based off this type property.
The other thing it's going to have which it might or might not is something called a payload.
Now this payload can be anything and the only reason that we can say it's anything is because maybe
with this payload object we want to do something with it in order to update our state we might pass
an object that we literally set as the value in our state or we might use this value to make some transformations
on our state.
We don't know but it's just a very flexible property that we get on this action object that we can or
cannot use.
Now that's all actions are they're just objects that have these two properties of type and payload and
this will make more sense once we write more of the code.
But as I was mentioning before our reducer is just going to be this function.
So I want to call it user reducer because that's what it is and it's a function that again gets the
state and some action.
Now again the state is going to be something that the redux store is going to pass to this reducer.
Right.
Whenever an action fires and the state will be whatever the state it is currently when that action gets
fired so because when we actually fire the state for the first time it's going to be nothing right.
Because redux doesn't know that we have any state when the app version nationalizes.
So when an action gets fired there's gonna be no state.
So we want to make sure to set an initial state.
So what we'll do is we will write a new concept called initial state and this will just be an object
that represents the initial state of this reducer very similar to when we instantiate state on r class
components right.
We make sure to set some initial state value which is the default values when this component mounts
for the first time.
And we're doing pretty much the exact same thing in our reducer.
So we're actually going to take this current user value and put it into our initial state because it's
going to be pretty much the exact same thing.
So now that we have our initial state we're going to make sure that inside of this function call we're
going to use that initial value as what is called a default parameter value.
So this is an iOS 6 feature for functions where you can actually pass some default value here with this
equals and then the value syntax.
What this means is that if state is ever undefined meaning that it's not set then it will fall back
and leverage this initial state value that we passed here.
But remember no is considered a value.
So if this value inside when you use this default parameter is ever no like as in state is ever null.
It will still pass null in as the state value and consider an actual valid value and it won't fall back
on this default value that we set.
So this is just the thing we've got to keep in mind.
But now that we have our reduced our function written inside of this we have to actually think about
how do we return the actual state we want based on the action.
So what we're going to do here is we are going to write what's called a switch statement and a switch
statement is pretty much just this statement that looks like this based on some condition and then inside
of it we setup case statements and a default value.
So it's actually very simple.
What we're gonna say is that based on the action dot type value which will be a string if the case of
that action type is one that we want right then what we'll do is we'll render something otherwise by
default we are going to just return the state.
Now the caveat here to remember is that every single reducer gets every single action that ever gets
fired.
Even if those actions are not related to this reducer so the reason why we want a default return the
state is because if none of the action types match inside of the switch statement about the ones that
we care about then we just want to return the state.
So for us the case that we care about is set current user when Emre said current user is the action
type that gets fired.
We then want to return a new object which represents the new state that our user reducer is going to
transform into and what that value will be is everything else on the state.
We always want to spread in everything on the state right because we only want to modify the values
that we care about and the value that we care to set is our current user.
And this is going to be the payload and that's all it is.
You remember how I said the action object is just the type and then a payload.
Well for us we're literally setting the current user value with this payload.
So this reducer I know might be a lot of new concepts that you're not used to but if you just look at
this statement it's a function that gets a state object and an action depending on what the type of
action is.
This switch statement will then check if the case for this action type is equal to set current user.
Then I want to return this new object out of this.
Reduce our function if none of these action types match any of the case statements that we write then
just default to return the current state of what the reducer is so that's pretty much all a reducer
code.
What we'll do is we will export this out as the default value from this user reduce our And then what
we'll do is we will bring this into our route reducer because now we have our reducer our first reducer.
Now if you remember I mentioned that the root reducer represents the overall reducer based on all of
the reduces that it pulls in in order for us to combine them all together.
We actually need to import this function called combine reduces and this comes from the redux library.
So with this when we import our user reducer from our new user user reducer file we are going to export
out this as the default value which gets returned from combined producers passing in this object where
the key goes to the actual reducer that we want.
So if you remember our full state in redux is just one big Jason object.
The key is that represent the individual slices of state i.e. the actual reducer as is the actual individual
red doors users that we've wrote.
So this user reducer is just currently this object with a current user value that will get set whenever
the set current user action fires.
We are then pulling that into this combined reducer which will return it into one giant object that
is appropriately bound with all the redux functionality that we want.
So I know it seems complex.
I know there's a lot of code that we wrote but this is what we need in order to get started so with
this we've written our first reducer but we still have to actually bring it into our store and instantiate
our store.
Well how do we do that.
Well this video's a little long so I'm going to end it here.
But in the next section we're going to bring our new route reducer into our store as well as create
some other stuff such as actions so that we can actually flesh out the first redux feature inside of
our application.
So see you in the next lesson.